Red|Sword of Light|http://i.imgur.com/U4XLZGb.png|Gameplay wise Red is one of the most simple colors to use in the game similarly to the design in the games it's based on, focusing on swarming the field with Cost 2 and 1 units to both trigger effects to create hand advantage and field control alongside general support abilities that allow said low cost units to be capable of striking down your oponent's units and pressure them into having to redirect attacks from your MC to the rest of your units while using it's tools to be able to repopulate the field as soon as possible when needed via both skills and their low cost, potentially with even stronger units than the ones before the cleared ones. But do not let this fool you, due to the simplicity of it's main mechanics they are easy to counter if not used skillfully, leaving their true potential fully in control of the player.
Blue|Mark of Naga|http://i.imgur.com/2fA7RTN.png|Blue cards are constructed around the brave Shepards of Ylisse, from '"Fire Emblem Awakening"', a tale of fighting bizarre evils and defying destiny that envelops from Ylisse to Valm in the other side of the sea alongide futures past. The color focuses on Class Changing, providing many bonuses for Class Changed units and having the highest amount of CCS skills, they also count with a powerful array of flying and Manakete units to support the necessary setup.
White|Hoshido|http://i.imgur.com/Ol0DARf.png|White cards defend their peace-loving country of Hoshido, from Fire Emblem Fates Birthright and Revelations. The color focuses on having many units deployed and skills that benefit from many deployments. They have a multifold of archers, fliers, and the unique class of ninjas. Cards from Revelations based sets also have high synergy with Nohr (Black) cards and utilize unique "Unison" skills, as well as the Dragon Vein mechanic. In addition, they have a wide assortment of draw options.
Black|Nohr|http://i.imgur.com/0uoh0RQ.png|Black cards invade from their glory-seeking country of Nohr, from Fire Emblem Fates Conquest and Revelations. The colour focuses on cutting down many units and benefiting from keeping your opponents numbers low. They have an overpowering array of dark mages, cavalry, wyvern riders, and knights. Cards from Revelations based sets also have high synergy with Hoshido (White) cards and utilize unique "Unison" skills, as well as the Dragon Vein mechanic. In addition, black has many skills that revolve around card destruction and teamkilling to activate skills.
Green|Medallion|http://i.imgur.com/qtdGLsj.png|Green cards come from the diverse continent of Tellius, from Fire Emblem Path of Radiance and Radiant Dawn. The color focuses on using levelling up and stacking to their advantage with unique LvS skills and Master Class Change cards. They have a uniform amount of Beorc classes, and a very wide selection of Laguz (Fangs affinity) units that synergize well with themselves.
Purple|Divine Artifacts|http://i.imgur.com/HFQLjN0.png|Purple cards originate from the continent of Elibe, from Fire Emblem Binding Blade and Blazing Sword. The colour has unique gameplay mechanics specific to support emblems. Unique support skills can flip bonds, be on promoted units, and activate other skills. Some cards even have multiple support emblems. They have a balanced number of classes, and a notable triangle attack squad.
Yellow|Holy War Flag|http://i.imgur.com/IdDCpzi.png|Much like the games (namely, Fire Emblem: Genealogy of the Holy War), this Insignia focuses on potent Cavalry units capable of boosting themselves and their allies in various ways to make up for their lacking Support values, with the objective of achieving the strength to overcome their opponents, alongside equally capable foot units. Their way to achieve this is via a unique mechanic known as "Bond Skills", skills capable of being used only if the card is placed in the Bond Area, along with skills on the field that ask for certain cards to be face up in one's Bond Area.
Colorless|Order of Heroes|http://i.imgur.com/Plb9TS6.png|The newest division of Cipher to be joining the game will lack an Insignia altogether; to represent the heroes and villains of Fire Emblem Heroes and most like Fire Emblem Warriors. This unique absence of an Insignia allows them to be deployed without the need of having face-up card with the necessary Insignia in your Bond Area; but on the contrary, they do not provide any Insignia when in the Bond Area. This makes them extremely splashable as you don't need to dedicate a certain chunk of your deck for this category. Currently, only Shareena, Alfonse, and Anna are previewed during set 9's release. The name "Order of Heroes" will be temporary until we have a proper name for colorless cards.